1.The process analysing, designing, building and testing of software applications.
2. The process of designing,analysing and creation of software emphasizing on the methodical approach to software design while programming refers to the writing of code to solve a apecific problem.
3.PHASES OF SDLC 
a) Requirements gathering and analysis -documentation of project requirements in order to understandwhat the software should do and who will use it and what problems will be solved
b) System Design-system is designed according to requirements gathered.
c)Implementation/coding-programmers follow coding standards and rules to create the software that meets user requirements.
d)Testing-software is tested to ensure it meets user requirements
e)Deployment-software is installed on servers,configured and made available to users.
f)Maintenance-monitoring and update of software by fixing bugs,adding new features and addressing issues that arise during its use.
4.Waterfall follows a linear and sequential approach where each phase must be completed moving to the next while Agile is an itirative and incremental approach.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN  WATERFALL AND AGILE APPROACH
Waterfall approach is less flexible changes while agile aproach is adaptable to change
Waterfall approach takes longer to execute while agile approach takes shorter time to execute.
5.Requirement engineering is the process of defining,documenting and maintaining requirements in the system or software engineering process.
PROCESS OF REQUIREMENT ENGINEERING
a)Feasibility study
b)Requirement elecitation
c)Requirement specification
d)Requirements for verification and validation
e)Requirement management
IMPORTANCE OF REQUIREMENT ENGINEERING
There are reduced errors by defining requirement upfront hence costly errors are minimised.
There are reduced maintenance costs.
6.Principle of dividing a software application into modules which are the building blocks.
Improve maintanability-changes and bug fixes are isolated within a specific module instead of the entire system.
Scalability-easily scaled up or down by adding or removing modules.
7.Testing helps identify bugs and ensure they are fixed to make a software meet user requirements.
a)Unit testing-Testing individual components or units of code in isolation.
b)Intergration testing-testing interactions between different components to ensure that they communicate and functioncorrectly as a whole.
c)System testing-testing the intergrated system against specified requirement as a whole.
d)Acceptance-conducted by users to ensure the system meets their needs.
WHY TESTING IS CRUCIAL
a)To help identify defects and bugs in the software to allow them to be fixed.
b)Ensure software meets specified requirements and function correctly.
8.Tools used in software development to manage changes to source code,documents and files
IMPORTANCE
 -Change tracking of files by keeping history
 -Enables multiple developers to collaborate on the same project
 -Serve as a backup for code and project files
 Examples
 GIT- extensive ecosystem of tools and intergrations eg. github,gitlab
 Subvarsion-support for binary files eg. apache subversion
 9.Ensuring the successful planning,execution and delivery of software projects
 RESPONSIBILITIES
 Project planning and scheduling
 management of groups
 Risk management
 CHALLENGES
 Mitigating risks in an uncertain environment
 Resolving conflicts in a diverse team of people
 10.Involves making changes to software to ensure that it continues to meet the users requirements
 MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES
 Preventive-identifying potential risks in software to prevent future issues
 corrective-addressing bugs ,errors in the deployed software
 Adaptive-changes in the environment
 Perfective-enhancing software in real time
 WHY IS MAINTENANCE ESSENTIAL
 Ensure the reliability of the software
 User satisfaction by meeting their requirements.
 11.Security vulnerabilities in software which may lead to cyberthreats ,data breaches
 a)Environmental impact on climate change due to energy consumption,carbon emission and waste products'
 b)privacy when handling sensitive user data
  
  a)Abiding by codes of conduct and ethical guidelines
  b)Educating on ethical issues such as security,privacy
  c)Accountability in their decision making and be ready to take responsibilities of their actions.